MTF 

Clan's Status
d6	Status
Mighty. Conquered several dwarven strongholds, dominates Underdark region
1	Prosperous. Clan occupies original stronghold, currently flourishing
2	Growing. Stronghold expanding
3	Declining. Clan population stagnant or decreasing
4	Beleaguered. Victimized by goblinoid and dragon attacks, intact but severely weakened
5	Scattered. Stronghold recently lost, many folk slain, survivors scattered
6	Refugees. Stronghold lost, survivors occupy a neighborhood or ward in human city

1	Mighty. Conquered several dwarven strongholds, dominates Underdark region
2	Growing. Stronghold expanding
3	Declining. Clan growing stale, population falling
4	Beleaguered. Surrounded by drow and illithid foes
5	Scattered. Torn apart by slave rebellion or civil war
6	Refugees. Defeated by enemies, few survivors

Clan's Notable Trait
d12	Trait
1	Stole a mighty dwarven artifact
2	Has bound many devils to service
3	Experts in building mechanical devices
4	Conducts trade with the City of Brass
5	Notable for defeating many dwarves
6	Conquered and occupied a drow enclave
7	Is secretly controlled by mind flayers
8	Has enslaved a colony of troglodytes
9	Have interbred with devils
10	Known for its extensive spy network on surface
11	Masters of psionics
12	Dominated by a coven of warlocks


Clan's Notable Trait
d10	Trait
1	Founder was one of the greatest artisans in history
2	Clan owns a powerful artifact, such as an Axe of the Dwarvish Lords
3	Clan noted for expertise in a specific craft, such as brewing or armorsmithing
4	Clan has a sinister reputation, history plagued by scandal and mark of Abbathor
5	Militaristic clan, known for excellent fighting skills
6	Unusual stronghold, such as an undersea castle, a former cloud giant fortress, or an aboveground city
7	Prophecies indicate clan is destined to play a pivotal role in history
8	Heretical clan has rejected dwarf teachings in favor of human deities
9	Unique marker or curse, such as all clan members are hairless
10	Clan is known for its evil ways or a particularly sinister, notable member

Clan Vocations
d20	Vocation
1	Armorer
2	Blacksmith
3	Brewer
4	Carpenter
5	Cook
6	Envoy
7	Farmer
8	Hunter
9	Jeweler
10	Mason
11	Merchant
12	Messenger
13	Miner
14	Potter
15	Scout
16	Sculptor
17	Shepherd
18	Warrior
19	Weaponsmith
20	Weaver


Duergar Quirks
d6	Quirk
1	A separate personality in your mind provides advice and guidance to you.
2	Your gear must be perfectly arranged, otherwise someone must bleed.
3	When there isn't a roof over your head, you keep your eyes on the ground.
4	You don't talk unless you absolutely must.
5	The outside world is a giant cave, and nothing will convince you otherwise.
6	Humans fascinate you, and you collect odd trinkets of their culture.

Dwarf Quirks
d8	Quirk
1	Water from the sky! It always surprises you.
2	You have a fascination with the ocean and its chaos.
3	Any creature larger than a human makes you nervous.
4	You prefer to travel with a parasol or similar item that puts a comforting shelter over your head.
5	You prefer to sleep during the day.
6	You speak Common or any other non-dwarf language only if you must.
7	For you, relaxation is putting in a day at the forge.
8	You avoid contact with other dwarves, since you mistrust those who would leave their strongholds.

Halfling Superstitions
Halflings might perform the following actions, among many others, to ward off bad luck or to bring good fortune. Villages or even families might have superstitions observed by no one else, such as the following:

For a safe journey through a forest, leave a few seeds or a cloverleaf for Sheela Peryroyl.
A large silvery squirrel could be Yondalla in disguise. Be on your best behavior and offer a treat when you see her!
A spring is a sacred place full of good luck. Take a moment to pause and reflect in such a place, or stop for a quick snack.
Set flowers in your cap or hair to protect against evil faeries.
When the hair on your neck stiffens or the skin on your arm looks like a plucked chicken, know that Charmalaine is near-and heed her warning.
Put a frog under your cap to bring good luck, but not for too long, or it's bad luck for a fortnight.
If you step on a butterfly, you'd best not leave the safety of your house for three days.
When you plant a row of turnips or radishes, be sure to bury a nice round stone for Yondalla at the head of it, and she'll help bring you some big fellers.
Always keep a fairy circle on your left when you pass by, and be sure to tip your cap. Never enter or stand in the center of one.


Reasons for Adventuring
d6	Reason
1	Peeling taters and herding goats all the time wasn't your cup of tea.
2	You fell asleep on a raft one day and woke up near a human city. You were so thrilled with the strange sights and tasty food that you never turned back.
3	What started off as simple pumpkin pillaging from nearby farms turned into your becoming a wandering rogue for hire.
4	You talked to a nice faerie in the woods, and all of a sudden you were a thousand miles from home.
5	Your village elder told you so many stories about being a rogue in an adventuring party that you couldn't resist the urge to try doing it yourself.
6	A friend dared you to jump on the back of a sleeping horse, which turned out to be a pegasus, and your life hasn't slowed down since.